Objective:

Evaluation:
The objective is to check in and assess the employee’s performance over a certain period of time to make key business decisions. Typically, these decisions include things like whether this person should get promoted, whether the employee deserves a raise, and the employee’s overall status within the company.

Development:
The objective is to enact a feedback process, and regularly provide employees with constructive feedback to highlight how they can improve. At the end of this review, employees have received 360 degree feedback and have an action plan. They know what they need to work on and what steps they need to take to be successful, as well as any skills to work on for leadership development.

Parameters:

Project Management: How does this person approach completing their work product, and do they demonstrate strong time management skills when doing so?
Culture: How well does this person reflect the company values?
Career Development: What can this person do to improve their work product and working relationships at the company?
Impact: How much of a contribution does this person make to the organization?
Problem Solving: How does this person approach challenges? Do they employ creative ideas in solving problems?
Communication Skills: How well does this person interact with co-workers? Do they have a positive attitude, or are they always making negative comments?

Performance Review Question Templates
‍
Quarterly:
A quick way to provide feedback on your co-workers every few months.
What are this person’s strengths?
What’s something this person could improve on?

Lookback Outlook
1. Great for an end of year review.
2. What did this person do well this year?
3. What should this person do differently next year?
4. What are your goals for the coming year?

Stop Start Continue
An easy framework for employees to provide simple feedback. Perfect for companies that hold performance reviews more frequently.
1. What’s one thing this person should stop doing?
2. What’s one thing this person should start doing?
3. What’s one thing this person should continue doing?

Performance Potential Behavior
Simple way to look at the three critical dimensions of performance.
1. To what degree did this person meet your expectations for their performance. Did they accomplish their goals?
2. In what areas do you see the most potential for this person? How do you hope to see this person grow over the next 3-6 months?
3. To what extent does this person embody our company values? Be as specific as you can.

Comprehensive Reviews:

Self:

1. What accomplishments are you most proud of?
2. To what extent did you meet your goals for the year?
3. How well do you prioritize and manage your workload?
4. How well do you listen to and communicate with others?
5. What do you think you should do differently next year?
6. Provide an example of one company value you brought to life and how

Peer:

1. Does this employee effectively communicate with others?
2. How effective of a leader is this person, either through direct management or influence?
3. Does this person find creative solutions, and own the solution to problems? Are they proactive or reactive?
4. How would you rate the quality of the employee’s work?
5. How well does this person set and meet deadlines? How reasonable are their time estimates?
6. How does this person stand up against the pillars of culture? What have been their successes? What are their challenges?
7. If you could give this person one piece of constructive advice to make them more effective in their role, what would you say?

Feedback Questionnaire:

1. Does this employee effectively communicate with others?
2. Does this person find creative solutions, and own the solution to problems? Are they proactive or reactive?
3. How would you rate the quality of the employee’s work?
4. How well does this person set and meet deadlines? How reasonable are their time estimates?
5. How does this person stand up against the pillars of culture? What have been their successes? What are their challenges?
6. If you could give this person one piece of constructive advice to make them more effective in their role, what would you say?

Direct Reports:

1. What’s an area where you’ve seen this person excel?
2. What’s an area you’d like to see this person improve?
3. To what extent did this person meet their performance goals?
4. How well does this person prioritize and manage their workload?
5. How well does this person communicate with others?
6. Provide an example of one company value this person brought to life

Rewards Questions:

1. Given what I know of this person’s performance, and if it were my money, I would award this person the highest possible compensation increase and bonus.
2. Given what I know of this person’s performance, I would always want him or her on my team.
3. This person is at risk for low performance.
4. This person is ready for promotion today.

Leadership:

1. How effective of a leader is this person, either through direct management or influence? Does this person help improve the skills of the people around them?
2. How can this person improve their leadership?
3. What specific examples of leadership can you share? What leadership skills do they exemplify?
4. Does this person make the people around them excited and happy to be here?


Culture/Values:

1. Provide an example of one company value they brought to life and how
2. How does this person stand up against the pillars of company culture? What have been their successes? What are their challenges?

Problem Solving:

1. Does this person own the solution to problems? Are they proactive or reactive?
2. How well does this person illustrate new thinking/novel approaches to tough challenges?
3. Does this person come up with new ideas, fresh approaches, and innovative solutions in their work?

Communication:

Does this employee effectively communicate with others?
Does the employee take direction and follow orders well? 
How well does this person listen to others and communicate with clarity?
How well does this person give feedback to others? How are they at receiving feedback or constructive criticism? 
Does this person work well with other people?
How well does this person work on a team; how effective are they as a 'team player'?
Provides clear, objective, timely and focused feedback to any direct reports, peers and managers.
How would you recommend this person improves their interpersonal skills?
How well does this person contribute to the overall success and function of the team?

Impact:

What areas of impact did you have on your projects, your team or the organization?
How would you rate the quality of the employee’s work?
To what degree has this person demonstrated business impact?
On a scale of 1 to 5, how effective do you think this person is in their role?
Is this person productive? Do they work quickly, while maintaining quality work product?

Project Management:

How well does this person set and meet deadlines? How reasonable are their time estimates?
Is this person detail oriented?
How effectively does this person prioritize their workload?
Does this person effectively manage their time?
How timely is the employee about the completion of their work?
Is the employee capable of working independently with little to no supervision?

Career Development: Self Review

What can you improve?
What are your key strengths?
What accomplishments are you most proud of?
What do you think you should do differently next year?
What do you want to accomplish in the coming year?
When you look back over your career, what do you want to have accomplished?
What do you want your next position at the company to be? What elements of your job do you find most difficult?
What elements of your job interest you the most, and the least?

Career Development: Peer Review:

If you could give this person one piece of constructive advice to make them more effective in their role, what would you say?
Overall, what areas of focus do you think could most help this person grow in their career?
‍